docs: Triton Inference Server (#3519)
bentoml/BentoML: docs/source/integrations/triton.rst

=======================
Triton Inference Server
=======================

*time expected: 10 minutes*

:github:`NVIDIA Triton Inference Server <triton-inference-server>` is a high performance, open-source inference server for serving deep learning models.
It is optimized to deploy models from multiple deep learning frameworks, including TensorRT,
TensorFlow, ONNX, to various deployments target and cloud providers. Triton is also designed with optimizations to maximize hardware utilization through concurrent model execution and efficient batching strategies.

BentoML now supports running Triton Inference Server as a :ref:`Runner <concepts/runner:Using Runners>`.
The following integration guide assumes that readers are familiar with BentoML architecture.
Check out our :ref:`tutorial <tutorial:Creating a Service>` should you wish to learn more about BentoML service definition.

> The guide is intended to be as comprehensive and detailed as possible, yet some features from Triton Inference Server are not covered. For more information, please refer to the `Triton Inference Server documentation <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/index.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about Triton, please refer to the `Triton Inference Server documentation <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/index.html>`_.
```

The code examples in this guide can also be found in the :github:`example folder <bentoml/BentoML/tree/main/examples/triton>`.

> Why do you want this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why Integrating BentoML with Triton Inference Server?
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * For Triton users, the integration provides a simple way to add pre/post-processing logics in Python, distributed deployment of multi-model inference graph, 
>   unifying model management with other machine learning frameworks/workflow. and a standardisation for your model packaging format, which is versioned and can be shared with collaborators.
> 
> * For BentoML users, the integration improves the runner efficiency and throughput under high load thanks to Triton's C++ runtime implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an existing Triton user, the integration provides simpler ways to add custom logics in Python, deploy distributed multi-model inference graph, unify model management across different ML frameworks and workflows, and standardise model packaging format with versioning and collaboration features. If you are an existing BentoML user, the integration improves the runner efficiency and throughput under high load thanks to Triton's efficient C++ runtime.
```

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Make sure to have at least BentoML 1.0.16:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install -U "bentoml[triton]"

.. note::

   Triton Inference Server is currently only available in production mode (``--production`` flag) and will not work during development mode.

Additonally, you will need to have Triton Inference Server installed in your system. Refer to Triton's `building documentation <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/customization_guide/build.html>`_

> to setup your environment.
> 
> The recommended way to run Triton is through container (Docker/Podman). To pull the latest Triton container for testing, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to setup your environment. The recommended way to run Triton is through container (Docker/Podman). To pull the latest Triton container for testing, run:
```

   )

.. note::

   If models are saved on the file system, using the Triton runner requires setting up the model repository explicitly through the `includes` key in the `bentofile.yaml`.

.. note::

   The ``cli_args`` argument is a list of arguments that will be passed to the ``tritonserver`` command. For example, the ``--load-model`` argument is used to load a specific model from the model repository.
   See ``tritonserver --help`` for all available arguments.

From a developer perspective, remote invocation of Triton runners is similar to invoking any other BentoML runners. 

.. note::

   By default, ``bentoml.triton.Runner`` will run the ``tritonserver`` with gRPC protocol. To use HTTP/REST protocol, provide ``tritonserver_type=''http'`` to the ``Runner`` constructor.

   .. code-block:: python

      import bentoml

      triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="/path/to/model_repository", tritonserver_type="http")

Triton Runner Signatures
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Normally in a BentoML Runner, one can access the model signatures directly from the runners attributes. For example, the model signature ``predict``

> of a ``iris_classifier_runner`` (as often seen in our :ref:`tutorial <tutorial:Creating a Service>`) can be accessed as ``iris_classifier_runner.predict.run``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of a ``iris_classifier_runner`` (see :ref:`service definition <tutorial:Creating a Service>`) can be accessed as ``iris_classifier_runner.predict.run``.
```

   To get ``OUTPUT__0`` as a numpy array:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: gRPC
         :sync: grpc

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

      .. tab-item:: HTTP
         :sync: http

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

   To get ``OUTPUT__1`` as a JSON dictionary:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: gRPC
         :sync: grpc

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.get_output("OUTPUT__0", as_json=True)

      .. tab-item:: HTTP
         :sync: http

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.get_output("OUTPUT__0")

> Additonally, Triton runners exposes all `tritonclient <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client>`_ to TritonRunner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additonally, the Triton runner exposes all `tritonclient <https://github.com/triton-inference-server/client>`_ functions.
```

    :language: python
    :caption: `service.py`

Inference Protocol and Metrics Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, TritonRunner uses `the Inference protocol <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/customization_guide/inference_protocols.html?highlight=inference%20api>`_ for both REST and gRPC.

HTTP/REST APIs is disabled by default, though it can be enabled when creating the runner by passing ``tritonserver_type`` to the Runner:

.. code-block:: python

    triton_runner = TritonRunner(
        "http_runner",
        "/path/to/model_repository",
        tritonserver_type="http"
    )

.. epigraph::
    Currently, TritonRunner does not support running `Metrics server <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/metrics.html>`_.
    If you are interested in supporting the metrics server, please open an issue on :github:`GitHub <bentoml/BentoML/issues/new/choose>`

Additionally, BentoML will allocate a random port for the gRPC/HTTP server, hence ``grpc-port`` or ``http-port`` options that is passed to Runner ``cli_args`` will be omitted.

> Should I use Triton Inference Server?
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> Absolutely, depending on your use-case. If you are looking for improving RPS for your production models, then Triton Inference Server through ``bentoml.triton.Runner``
> is a great option to consider. Note that you are responsible for managing the model repository and its respectively ``config.pbtxt`` to make sure it will fit your use-case.
> 
> If you are a Triton users who are looking for a more easier and streamlined workflow for multi-model inference graphs and more ergonomic pre/post-processing, 
> then you might want to consider this integration as a solution.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The code examples in this guide can also be found in the examples folder [#triton_runner]_.

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Make sure to have at least BentoML 1.0.14 and ``tritonclient`` at least version 2.29.0 available in your Python environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install -U bentoml tritonclient[all]

.. note::

   Triton Inference Server is currently only available in production mode (``--production`` flag) and will not work during development mode.

Additonally, you will need to have Triton Inference Server installed in your system. Refer to Triton's building documentation [#triton_build]_
to setup your environment.

The recommended way to run Triton is through container (Docker/Podman). To pull the latest Triton container for testing, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<yy>.<mm>-py3

.. note::

    ``<yy>.<mm>``: the version of Triton you wish to use. For example, at the time of writing, the latest version is ``22.12``.

> In this guide, we will demonstrate the capabilities of Triton Inference Server with BentoML and how one can take advantages of both frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Finally, The example Bento built from the example project with YoloV5 model [#triton_runner]_ will be referenced throughout this guide.

.. note::

   To develop your own Bento with Triton, you can refer to the example folder [#triton_runner]_ for more usage.

> Why do you want this?

Reviewer: Should this be moved up for better flow?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> * For existing Triton users who are searching for a simple way to add pre/post-processing logics, comprehensive supports of multi-model inference graph
>   and a standardisation for your model packaging format, which can then be easily reused and collaborated with other teams members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For Triton users, the integration provides a simple way to add pre/post-processing logics in Python, distributed deployment of multi-model inference graph
  and a standardisation for your model packaging format, which is versioned and can be shared with collaborators.
```

> * For existing Triton users who are looking to unify model management with other machine learning frameworks/workflow.

Reviewer: Merge this with the above section about the benefits for existing Triton users.

> * For existing BentoML users, Triton reduces the performance gap between model server written in C++ and Python. While BentoML
>   is constantly improving, Triton provides better performance under given certain conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* For BentoML users, the integration improves the runner efficiency and throughput under high load thanks to Triton's C++ runtime implementation.
```

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="/path/to/model_repository")

The argument ``model_repository`` is the path to said model repository that Triton can use to serve the model. Note that ``model_repository`` also
supports S3 path:

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="s3://bucket/path/to/model_repository")

.. note::

   If models are saved on the file system, using the Triton runner requires setting up the model repository explicitly through the `includes` key in the `bentofile.yaml`.

From a developer perspective, remote invocation of Triton runners is similar to invoking any other BentoML runners. 

.. note::

   By default, ``bentoml.triton.Runner`` will run the ``tritonserver`` with gRPC protocol. To use HTTP/REST protocol, provide ``tritonserver_type=''http'`` to the ``Runner`` constructor.

   .. code-block:: python

      import bentoml

      triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="/path/to/model_repository", tritonserver_type="http")

> Triton Runner signatures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triton Runner Signatures
```

.. code-block:: prolog

    model_repository
    ├── onnx_mnist
    │   ├── 1
    │   │   └── model.onnx
    │   └── config.pbtxt
    ├── tensorflow_mnist
    │   ├── 1
    │   │   └── model.savedmodel/
    │   └── config.pbtxt
    └── torchscript_mnist
        ├── 1
        │   └── model.pt
        └── config.pbtxt

Then each model inference can be accessed as ``triton_runner.onnx_mnist``, ``triton_runner.tensorflow_mnist``, or ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist`` and invoked using either ``run`` or ``async_run``.

An example to demonstrate how to call the Triton runner:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml
    import numpy as np

    @svc.api(
        input=bentoml.io.Image.from_sample("./data/0.png"), output=bentoml.io.NumpyNdarray()
    )
    async def bentoml_torchscript_mnist_infer(im: Image) -> NDArray[t.Any]:
        arr = np.array(im) / 255.0
        arr = np.expand_dims(arr, (0, 1)).astype("float32")
        InferResult = await triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run(arr)
        return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

There are a few things to note here:

> 1. Triton runners should only be called **lazily**. In other words, if ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run`` is invoked in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Triton runners should only be called within an API function. In other words, if ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run`` is invoked in the
```

   global scope, it will not work. This is because Triton is not implemented natively in Python, and hence ``init_local`` is not supported.

   .. code-block:: python

       triton_runner.init_local()

>        # TritonRunner 'triton_runner' will not be available for development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       # TritonRunner 'triton_runner' cannot be initialized locally and will raise an error.
```

   For example, if the following ``config.pbtxt`` is used for ``torchscript_mnist``:

   .. code-block:: protobuf

       platform: "pytorch_libtorch"
       dynamic_batching {}
       input {
        name: "INPUT__0"
        data_type: TYPE_FP32
        dims: -1
        dims: 1
        dims: 28
        dims: 28
       }
       input {
        name: "INPUT__1"
        data_type: TYPE_FP32
        dims: -1
        dims: 1
        dims: 28
        dims: 28
       }
       output {
        name: "OUTPUT__0"
        data_type: TYPE_FP32
        dims: -1
        dims: 10
       }
       output {
        name: "OUTPUT__1"
        data_type: TYPE_FP32
        dims: -1
        dims: 10
       }

   Then ``run`` or ``async_run`` takes either two positional arguments or two keyword arugments ``INPUT__0`` and ``INPUT__1``:

   .. code-block:: python

       # Both are valid
       triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))

       await triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run(
           INPUT__0=np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), INPUT__1=np.zeros((1, 28, 28))
       )

>    The following will result in an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Fixing positional and keyword arguments will result in an error:
```

   - ``get_output(name: str) -> InferOutputTensor | dict[str, T]``: Returns the results as a ``InferOutputTensor`` [#infer_output_tensor]_ (gRPC) or 
     a dictionary (HTTP). The argument is the name of the output defined in ``config.pbtxt``.

   - ``get_response(self) -> ModelInferResponse | dict[str, T]``: Returns the entire response as a ``ModelInferResponse`` [#model_infer_response]_ (gRPC) or 
     a dictionary (HTTP).

   Using the above ``config.pbtxt`` as example, the model consists of two outputs, ``OUTPUT__0`` and ``OUTPUT__1``.

   To get ``OUTPUT__0`` as a numpy array:

   .. tab-set::

      .. tab-item:: gRPC
         :sync: grpc

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

      .. tab-item:: HTTP
         :sync: http

         .. code-block:: python

             InferResult = triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.run(np.zeros((1, 28, 28)), np.zeros((1, 28, 28)))
             return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

>    To get ``OUTPUT__1`` as a json dictionary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To get ``OUTPUT__1`` as a JSON dictionary:
```

custom base image that has ``tritonserver`` binary available. See Triton's documentation [#triton_build]_ to learn more about building/composing custom Triton image.

.. epigraph::
    :bdg-primary:`Important:` The provided Triton image from NVIDIA includes Python 3.8. Therefore, if you are developing your Bento
    with any other Python version, make sure that your ``service.py`` is compatible with Python 3.8.

Serving BentoService with Triton Inference Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After containerizing with :ref:`bentoml containerize <reference/cli:containerize>`, :ref:`serve <reference/cli:serve>`
command now takes in additional ``--triton-options`` argument to pass options for ``tritonserver``:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: MacOS/Windows
       :sync: macwin

       .. tab-set::

          .. tab-item:: GPU
              :sync: gpu

              .. code-block:: bash

                  $ docker run --init --rm -p 3000:3000 triton-integration:gpu serve \
                                        --production --triton-options model-control-mode=explicit \

>                                         --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

Reviewer: Is `load-model` needed or here only to override which model to load?

                                        --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

    .. tab-item:: Linux
       :sync: linux

       .. tab-set::

          .. tab-item:: GPU
              :sync: gpu

              .. code-block:: bash

                  $ docker run --init --rm --network=host triton-integration:gpu serve \
                                        --production --triton-options model-control-mode=explicit \
                                        --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

          .. tab-item:: CPU
              :sync: cpu

              .. code-block:: bash

                  $ docker run --init --rm --network=host triton-integration:cpu serve-grpc \
                                        --production --triton-options model-control-mode=explicit \
                                        --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

.. tip::

   To see all available options for Triton run:

   .. code-block:: bash

      $ docker run --init --rm -p 3000:3000 triton-integration:gpu tritonserver --help

> Current caveats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current Caveats
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Versioning policy limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Versioning Policy Limitations
```

To use a specific version of said model, refer to the example below:

.. literalinclude:: ./snippets/triton/service_model_version_1.py
    :language: python
    :caption: `service.py`

Inference Protocol and Metrics Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, TritonRunner uses gRPC protocol that is defined in Inference protocol [#triton_inference_protocol]_.

HTTP/REST APIs is disabled by default, though it can be enabled via ``BENTOML_USE_HTTP_TRITONSERVER`` environment variable.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker run --init --rm -p 3000:3000 triton-integration:cpu serve \
                            --production --triton-options model-control-mode=explicit \
                            --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

.. epigraph::
    Currently, TritonRunner does not support running `Metrics server <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/metrics.html>`_.
    If you are interested in supporting the metrics server, please open an issue on :github:`GitHub <bentoml/BentoML/issues/new/choose>`

> Additionally, BentoML supervisors will allocate a random port for the gRPC server, hence ``grpc-port`` options that is passed to ``--triton-options`` will be omited.

Reviewer: What are BentoML supervisors?

Author: It is circus.

Reviewer: I see. Let's call it process supervisors then.

---------------

> Remarks

Reviewer: Does this section and the section below belong in the documentation or engineering blog?

Author: I think we can move this to the blog.

  an extensive set of configuration options that can be used to customize models' behaviour, with ability to extend its capabilities.

* **Framework supports and custom backends**: Triton supports all major frameworks, including Tensorflow, PyTorch, ONNX, TensorRT [#tensorrt_support]_ and OpenVINO,
  which enables for a wide range of use-cases and empowers ML practitioners to do what they do best. Additionally, they also support custom backends
  that can be used to implement custom inference logic.

Should I use Triton Inference Server?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Absolutely, depending on your use-case. If you are looking for improving RPS for your production models, then Triton Inference Server through ``bentoml.triton.Runner``
is a great option to consider. Note that you are responsible for managing the model repository and its respectively ``config.pbtxt`` to make sure it will fit your use-case.

If you have a lot of models to manage, then we recommend to only use TritonRunner for larger models that requires more resources to run inference, and use BentoML's

> :ref:`Runner <concepts/runner:Using Runners>` for smaller models.

Reviewer: The recommendation is not necessarily divided by big and small models. Triton is ideal when then load is high and serving efficiency needs to be maximized.

=======================
Triton Inference Server
=======================

*time expected: 12 minutes*

> NVIDIA Triton Inference Server [#triton]_ is a high performance, open-source inference server for serving deep learning models.

Author: I think footnote is suited for articles that have a lot of links. More declarative this way.

It is optimized to deploy models from multiple deep learning frameworks, including TensorRT,
TensorFlow, ONNX, to various deployments target and cloud providers. Triton is also designed with 
optimizations to maximize hardware utilization through concurrent model execution and efficient batching strategies.

BentoML now supports running Triton Inference Server through the :ref:`Runner <concepts/runner:Using Runners>`
architecture. The following integration guide makes the assumption that readers are familiar with BentoML infrastructure.
Make sure to check out our :ref:`tutorial <tutorial:Creating a Service>` should you wish to learn more about BentoML.

The guide will try to be as comprehensive and detailed as possible, yet we will not be able to cover all the

> features from Triton Inference Server. For more information, please refer to their documentation [#triton_docs]_.

Reviewer: Maybe avoid "our", "their", and use "BentoML's" and "Triton's" instead for a neutral tone.

The code examples in this guide can also be found in our examples folder [#triton_runner]_.

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Make sure to have at least BentoML 1.0.14 and ``tritonclient`` at least version 2.29.0 available in your Python environment:

Reviewer: Should "tritonclient" be installed as a plugin with "bentoml[triton]"?

Author: sure, but I think it will be come bloated for all of the features we want to add for future integration. It is ok to ask them to install addition deps, similar to spark.

Author: I have this discussion with Sauyon earlier today.

For integration such as Spark, users are required to have pyspark and spark available in order to use the features (or the user code is required to have pyspark in order to work).

For Triton, it is not required for users to have triton for their code to run. This means adding `bentoml[triton]` is ok in this case.

I will add a `bentoml[triton]` with this PR.

Reviewer: Also add to bentofile.yaml.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install -U bentoml tritonclient[all]

.. note::

   Triton Inference Server is currently only available in production mode (``--production`` flag) and will not work during development mode.

Additonally, you will need to have Triton Inference Server installed in your system. Refer to their building documentation [#triton_build]_
to setup your environment.

The recommended way to run Triton is through container (Docker/Podman). To pull the latest Triton container for testing, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker pull nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:<yy>.<mm>-py3

.. note::

>     ``<yy>.<mm>``: the version of Triton you wish to use. Currently the latest version is ``22.12``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``<yy>.<mm>``: the version of Triton you wish to use. For example, at the time of writing, the latest version is ``22.12``.
```

> In this guide, we will demonstrate the capabilities of Triton Inference Server with BentoML and provide constructive

Reviewer: What do you mean by constructive recommendation?

Author: I think i just meant recommendation

recommendationss to both BentoML and Triton Inference Server users.

Finally, The example Bento built from the example project [#triton_runner]_ will be referenced throughout this guide.
It contains a YOLOv5 model and a MNIST classifier model. If you have tried out the example, you should already have the Bento.

> If not, we provide two Bentos that support CPU and GPU. Run the following:

Reviewer: Why do we ask the users to download the example bentos first?

Author: For ease of use. But now if we split it out then we probably don't need this section anymore.

is a filesystem based persistent volume that contains the models file and its respective `configuration <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.html>`_ 
that defines how the model should be loaded and served. The inference server is implemented in either HTTP/REST or gRPC protocol to serve said models with various batching strategies.

BentoML provides a simple integration with Triton via :ref:`Runner <concepts/runner:Using Runners>`:

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="/path/to/model_repository")

The argument ``model_repository`` is the path to said model repository that Triton can use to serve the model. Note that ``model_repository`` also
supports S3 path:

.. code-block:: python

   import bentoml

   triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="s3://bucket/path/to/model_repository")

.. note::

>    Currently, the Triton integration requires one to setup the model repository manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If models are saved on the file system, using the Triton runner requires setting up the model repository explicitly through the `includes` key in the `bentofile.yaml`.
```
Is this what you mean?

From a developer perspective, remote invocation of Triton runners is similar to invoking any other BentoML runners. This means

> one can treat Triton as a standalone runtime.

Reviewer: > This means one can treat Triton as a standalone runtime.

Not sure what this means.

Author: I remove it for clarification. I don't remember what I meant back then 😄

   .. code-block:: python

      import bentoml

      triton_runner = bentoml.triton.Runner("triton_runner", model_repository="/path/to/model_repository", tritonserver_type="http")

Triton Runner signatures
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Normally in a BentoML Runner, one can access the model signatures directly from the runners attributes. For example, the model signature ``predict``
of a ``iris_classifier_runner`` (as often seen in our :ref:`tutorial <tutorial:Creating a Service>`) can be accessed as ``iris_classifier_runner.predict.run``.

However, Triton runner's attributes represent individual models defined under the model repository. For example, if the model repository has the following structure:

.. code-block:: prolog

    model_repository
    ├── onnx_mnist
    │   ├── 1
    │   │   └── model.onnx
    │   └── config.pbtxt
    ├── tensorflow_mnist
    │   ├── 1
    │   │   └── model.savedmodel/
    │   └── config.pbtxt
    └── torchscript_mnist
        ├── 1
        │   └── model.pt
        └── config.pbtxt

> Then each model inference can be accessed as ``triton_runner.onnx_mnist.<run|async_run>``, ``triton_runner.tensorflow_mnist.<run|async_run>``, and ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.<run|async_run>``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then each model inference can be accessed as ``triton_runner.onnx_mnist``, ``triton_runner.tensorflow_mnist``, or ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist`` and invoked using either ``run`` or ``async_run``.
```

An example to demonstrate how to call the Triton runner:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml
    import numpy as np

    @svc.api(
        input=bentoml.io.Image.from_sample("./data/0.png"), output=bentoml.io.NumpyNdarray()
    )
    async def bentoml_torchscript_mnist_infer(im: Image) -> NDArray[t.Any]:
        arr = np.array(im) / 255.0
        arr = np.expand_dims(arr, (0, 1)).astype("float32")
        InferResult = await triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run(arr)
        return InferResult.as_numpy("OUTPUT__0")

There are a few things to note here:

1. Triton runners should only be called **lazily**. In other words, if ``triton_runner.torchscript_mnist.async_run`` is invoked in the
   global scope, it will not work.

>    As a result, ``triton_runner.init_local()`` will not work in development mode.

Reviewer: Maybe it is more clear to say that the Triton runner cannot be initialized locally since it is not natively implemented in Python.

      .. literalinclude:: ./snippets/triton/bentofile.yaml
         :language: yaml
         :caption: `bentofile.yaml`

      Building this Bento with :ref:`bentoml build <reference/cli:build>`:

      .. code-block:: bash

         $ bentoml build

   .. tab-item:: Building with ``bentoml.bentos.build``

      .. literalinclude:: ./snippets/triton/build_bento.py
         :language: python
         :caption: `build_bento.py`

Notice that we are using ``nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:22.12-py3`` as our base image. This can be substituted with any other
custom base image that has ``tritonserver`` binary available. See Triton's documentation [#triton_build]_ to learn more about building/composing custom Triton image.

.. epigraph::
    :bdg-primary:`Important:` The provided Triton image from NVIDIA includes Python 3.8. Therefore, if you are developing your Bento
    with any other Python version, make sure that your ``service.py`` is compatible with Python 3.8.

Serving BentoService with Triton Inference Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After containerizing with :ref:`bentoml containerize <reference/cli:containerize>`, :ref:`serve <reference/cli:serve>`

> command now takes in additional ``--triton-options`` argument to pass options for ``tritonserver``:

Reviewer: Will options defined in `--triton--options` apply to all triton runners?

Author: yes. Currently

Reviewer: Let's add a note for this behavior.

Reviewer: As discussed, these CLI options may be better as runner options, provided through `with_options()`. Aaron is testing out the feasibility. We will discuss again.

      $ docker run --init --rm -p 3000:3000 triton-integration:gpu tritonserver --help

Current caveats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Versioning policy limitations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, model configuration `version policy <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.html#version-policy>`_
is set to ``latest(n=1)``, meaning the latest version of the model will be loaded into Triton server.

Currently, TritonRunner only supports the ``latest`` policy.
If you have multiple versions of the same model in your BentoService, then the runner only consider the latest version.

For example, if the model repository have the following structure:

.. code-block:: bash

    model_repository
    ├── onnx_mnist
    │   ├── 1
    │   │   └── model.onnx
    │   ├── 2
    │   │   └── model.onnx
    │   └── config.pbtxt
    ...

.. epigraph::
   Then ``triton_runner.onnx_mnist`` will reference to the latest version of the model (in this case, version 2).

To use a specific version of said model, refer to the example below:

.. literalinclude:: ./snippets/triton/service_model_version_1.py
    :language: python

>     :caption: `service.py`

Reviewer: Are we missing the example?

Author: I don't think so?

Author: I can see the example.

Reviewer: My mistake.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ docker run --init --rm -p 3000:3000 triton-integration:cpu serve \
                            --production --triton-options model-control-mode=explicit \
                            --triton-options load-model=onnx_mnist --triton-options load-model=torchscript_yolov5s

.. epigraph::
    Currently, TritonRunner does not support running `Metrics server <https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/user_guide/metrics.html>`_.
    If you are interested in supporting the metrics server, please open an issue on :github:`GitHub <bentoml/BentoML/issues/new/choose>`

Additionally, BentoML supervisors will allocate a random port for the gRPC server, hence ``grpc-port`` options that is passed to ``--triton-options`` will be omited.

---------------

Remarks
~~~~~~~

It is worth to mention that Triton Inference Server is a highly optimized model server that aims simplify multi-models serving.
The following list of benefits and drawbacks are based on our experience building this integration:

:raw-html:`<br />`

The benefits Triton Inference Server brings:

> * **Performance enhancement**: Triton Inference Server's concurrent model execution [#concurrent_model_execution]_
>   enables multiple models to be executed concurrently on the same/multiple GPUs, which significantly improves the overall throughput.
>   There is no doubt that by simply imlemented in C++, Triton Inference Server triumphs over its Python counterparts in terms of performance and resource
>   utilization as it can take full advantage of the underlying hardware, instead of the limitations of Python's GIL [#constraints]_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Performance enhancement**: Triton Inference Server's concurrent model execution [#concurrent_model_execution]_
  enables models to be executed concurrently on the same/multiple GPUs, with out the IO performance limitations introduced by Python's GIL [#constraints]_.
```

* **Extensive configuration options**: To go along with its suite of features and optimizations, Triton Inference Server also provides
  an extensive set of configuration options that can be used to customize models' behaviour, with ability to extend its capabilities.

* **Framework supports and custom backends**: Triton supports all major frameworks, including Tensorflow, PyTorch, ONNX, TensorRT [#tensorrt_support]_ and OpenVINO,
  which enables for a wide range of use-cases and empowers ML practitioners to do what they do best. Additionally, they also support custom backends
  that can be used to implement custom inference logic.

Among the powerful features Triton offers, it is worth to mention that Triton's design philosophy are engineering-driven, meaning users who excels in taking full advantages of Triton 
are ML engineers who are familiar with the domain of MLOps. This is not to say that data scientists cannot use Triton, but rather that they will have to learn a bit more about MLOps

> and model serving to be able to fully utilize its features and capabilities.

Reviewer: This paragraph may not be needed. It is answered below in the "Should I use Triton Inference Server" section.
